### This is the original NOTICE.TXT shipped with PHREEQC version 2.17
### and covers the user rights of that software

                            User Rights Notice

This software and related material (data and (or) documentation),
contained in or furnished in connection with PHREEQC, are made
available by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) to be used in the
public interest and in the advancement of science. You may, without
any fee or cost, use, copy, modify, or distribute this software, and
any derivative works thereof, and its supporting documentation,
subject to the following restrictions and understandings.

If you distribute copies or modifications of the software and related
material, make sure the recipients receive a copy of this notice and
receive or can get a copy of the original distribution. If the
software and (or) related material are modified and distributed, it
must be made clear that the recipients do not have the original and
they must be informed of the extent of the modifications. For example,
modified files must include a prominent notice stating the
modifications made, the author of the modifications, and the date the
modifications were made. This restriction is necessary to guard
against problems introduced in the software by others, reflecting
negatively on the reputation of the USGS.

The software is public property and you therefore have the right to
the source code, if desired.

You may charge fees for distribution, warranties, and services
provided in connection with the software or derivative works thereof.
The name USGS can be used in any advertising or publicity to endorse
or promote any products or commercial entity using this software if
specific written permission is obtained from the USGS.

The user agrees to appropriately acknowledge the authors and the USGS
in publications that result from the use of this software or in
products that include this software in whole or in part.

Because the software and related material are free (other than nominal
materials and handling fees) and provided "as is," the authors, the
USGS, and the United States Government have made no warranty, express
or implied, as to accuracy or completeness and are not obligated to
provide the user with any support, consulting, training or assistance
of any kind with regard to the use, operation, and performance of this
software nor to provide the user with any updates, revisions, new
versions, or "bug fixes."

The user assumes all risk for any damages whatsoever resulting from
loss of use, data, or profits arising in connection with the access,
use, quality, or performance of this software.


### The licence for all included Software besides the
### above mentioned PHREEQC package is the MIT Licence.

COPYRIGHT HOLDER: Marco De Lucia <delucia@gfz-potsdam.de>

Copyright (c) 2014, Marco De Lucia

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
